Welcome to Challenge 5! 🛡️  You are auditing the authentication module of a Python web application. The provided server (app.py) handles user authentication via a /login endpoint. Currently, this endpoint processes every single request it receives without any restrictions on frequency or volume.  This contains a critical security flaw. Without rate limiting, an attacker can write an automated script to execute a Brute-Force Attack. By submitting thousands of password guesses per minute from a single IP address, the attacker will eventually process the correct guess and compromise the user's account, all while exhausting the server's processing power.  Project Structure: You are given a few key files:  app.py: The Flask backend server containing the vulnerable /login route. templates/login.html: The frontend UI where the user logs in. templates/dashboard.html: The secure dashboard shown upon successful authentication. brute_force.py: A Python script simulating an automated hacking tool that rapidly fires HTTP requests. Lab Context: To keep the focus entirely on the mechanics of rate limiting, the app.py server uses a simple, hardcoded dictionary for user credentials (Username: alice, Password: password123). As you learned in the previous challenges, a real production environment would never store passwords in plain text.  Your Task Prove the vulnerability exists by executing an automated brute-force attack against the server. Then, act as the defender and patch app.py by integrating Flask-Limiter, an industry-standard middleware that tracks incoming IP addresses and blocks excessive requests.  Phase 1: The Attack Open your terminal and start the vulnerable web server by running: python app.py Open a second, separate terminal tab in your workspace (leave the server running in the first tab). In the new terminal, launch the automated attack by running: python brute_force.py Observe the terminal output. The script fires 10 rapid password guesses. Because the server lacks rate limiting, it cheerfully processes all 10 requests, returning a 401 Unauthorized for each bad password. You have successfully proven the endpoint is defenseless. Docs: OWASP Credential Stuffing & Brute Force Phase 2: The Defense Stop your Flask server in the terminal (press Ctrl+C). Ensure the required library is installed by running: pip install Flask-Limiter Open app.py in your code editor. TODO 1 & 2 (The Setup): Import the Limiter class and the get_remote_address utility from flask_limiter. Initialize the Limiter object, bind it to your Flask app, and configure it to track users based on their IP address. To keep things simple for this lab, configure its storage to use the server's local RAM. Finally, set a global safety net of 200 requests per day and 50 per hour. (Hint: Set the storage using storage_uri="memory://" and the defaults using default_limits=["200 per day", "50 per hour"]). TODO 3 (The Middleware): Secure the /login endpoint. Apply the appropriate rate-limiting decorator directly above the login() function to strictly restrict users to a maximum of 5 requests per minute. (Hint: The exact syntax looks like this: @limiter.limit("5 per minute")). TODO 4 (The Error Handler): Create a global error handler for "Too Many Requests" errors (HTTP status code 429). Instead of allowing Flask to show an ugly default plain-text screen when a user is blocked, write a function that intercepts this specific error. It should return the login.html template along with a custom error message (e.g., "Rate limit exceeded. Try again later.") and the 429 HTTP status code. (Hint: Use the Flask decorator @app.errorhandler(429) directly above your custom error function). Run python app.py to start the secured server. Go to your second terminal and run python brute_force.py again. Docs: Flask-Limiter Documentation | Expected Output:  Phase 1: Before Patching (The Successful Attack) The attacker script easily blasts the server with 10 requests. The server processes every single one without delay. === Automated Brute Force Attack === Targeting: http://127.0.0.1:3000/login  Attempt 01 | Failed guess. (Server processed the request) Attempt 02 | Failed guess. (Server processed the request) ... Attempt 09 | Failed guess. (Server processed the request) Attempt 10 | Failed guess. (Server processed the request)  Attack complete. Phase 2: After Patching (The Successful Defense) The attacker script tries the exact same attack. The first 5 go through, but the 6th request (and all subsequent requests) hit a brick wall. The server responds with an HTTP 429 error and safely refuses to process the passwords.